1.What data types do each of these values represent?

"A Clockwork Orange" - string
42 - integer
09/02/1945 - date
98.7 - float
$15.99 - money

2.Explain when a database would be used. Explain when a text file would be used.

A database is used when information needs to be stored and accessed by various
applications. If the amount of data is not large, a text file can be used for
ease of use and ability to edit with any text editor. Version control can
also be applied to these files.

3.Describe one difference between SQL and other programming languages.

One obvious difference is the declarative nature of the language. Instead of procedural
languages such as Javascript, which require exact steps to get results. SQL does not
need to declare the steps, just input on what is being queried.

4.In your own words, explain how the pieces of a database system fit together at a high level.

Data is stored in a unreadable format in specialized data structures similar to a table.
Columns and rows organize the data in an indexed manner which allows SQL to access that data.

5.Explain the meaning of table, row, column, and value.

Databases organize and store data by table, row, column, and value. It is this functionality
that allows the efficiency of SQL queries.

6.List three data types that can be used in a table.

Strings, integers, and objects.

7.Given this payments table, provide an English description of the following queries and include their results:

SELECT date, amount
FROM payments;
--------------
Select the data and amount columns from the Payments table

SELECT amount
FROM payments
WHERE amount > 500;
--------------
Select the amount column from the Payments table where the amounts are greater than 500

SELECT *
FROM payments
WHERE payee = 'Mega Foods';
-------------
Select all columns from the Payments table that match where the payee is Mega Foods


8.Given this users table, write SQL queries using the following criteria and include the output:

The email and sign-up date for the user named DeAndre Data.
------------
SELECT email, signup
FROM users
WHERE name = 'DeAndre Data';

EMAIL                   SIGNUP
datad@comcast.net       2008-01-20


The user ID for the user with email 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu'.
------------
SELECT userid
FROM users
WHERE email = 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu';

USERID
1


All the columns for the user ID equal to 4.
------------
SELECT *
FROM users
WHERE userid = '4';

USERID          NAME                 EMAIL                  SIGNUP
4               Brandy Boolean       bboolean@nasa.gov      1999-10-15
